# Using Denoising Autoencoders for Missing Data Imputation in Alzheimer’s Disease

Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) is a debilitating neuropsychological disease which affects more than 44 million people worldwide. It is the only top 10 worldwide cause of death that cannot be prevented, cured or delayed. Most of the research surrounding AD is focused on either the automated classifi- cation of patients into subgroups based on their characteristics or the prediction of certain disease related outcomes, such as cognitive decline. However, these methods are limited by the data they are modelled on, which in many cases has a large percentage of missing entries. We propose ap- plying denoising autoencoders (DAEs) as a missing data imputation method to an AD dataset. We implement modality-specific masking and partial loss for DAEs in order to focus the training of the model on missing data specifically. We show that DAEs outperform other data imputation methods: zero, mean, median, K-nearest neighbours (KNN) and Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) by achieving the lowest reconstruction loss, across all levels of masking. We also show that the dataset imputed with DAEs results in the smallest prediction error compared to the same dataset imputed with KNN and SVD when it is used to train a personalised Gaussian Process based model trying to predict an AD specific cognitive measurement (ADAS-Cog13). Thus, we show that DAEs offer an efficient alternative to missing data imputation, applicable to AD data but also to other types of datasets, regardless of the percentage of missing data.


For full paper please email me at aa14115@ic.ac.uk.
